yesterday open AI launched something
huge a new thing that's 10 times bigger
than anything that's come before it
unfortunately I'm not talking about
model weights or reasoning abilities but
only the price tag the new chat GPT Pro
Max comes in at $200 per month and is
designed for power users with unlimited
access to the new 01 model but most
importantly open AI is in a life or
death race to protect itself from its
Rivals who are becoming more and more
powerful on the same day of the launch
of chat GPT Pro open AI also got some
bad news one of elon's top I David Sachs
was named as Trump's AI crypto Zar Sam
ultman congratulated the new Zar on
Twitter to which Elon replied with a
Sinister laugh it's funny because Elon
recently became the head of an imaginary
government agency called Doge and
coincidentally just filed an injunction
in court preventing open AI from going
nonprofit to for-profit in today's video
we'll look at The Good the Bad and the
Ugly of open ai's uncertain future it is
December 7th 2024 and you're watching
the code report before we get into the
ridiculous web of Silicon Valley drama
with open Ai and the PayPal Mafia let's
first talk about Chachi BT Pro this new
$200 per month plan doesn't give you
access to any new models that you don't
have on the $20 per month plus plan but
it does give you unlimited access to GPT
40 and 01 like currently on the plus
plan you can only send 50 messages per
week to 01 now 01 is their quote unquote
reasoning model and it scores really
high on coding and math benchmarks it
feels similar to other models but has
the ability to prompt itself over and
over again using a technique called
Chain of Thought which generates
reasoning tokens and has the ability to
solve more complex problems especially
when it comes to math and programming
however this requires a lot more
computing power and on the Pro Plan you
get something called Pro mode to
apparently do even better on these
benchmarks and as an early adopter of
any AI slot they'll feed me I can
confirm that 01 Pro mode is actually
quite impressive it almost correctly
built a spelt 5 app and just look at
this $200 SVG unicorn that's impressive
but I still don't think I'll be buying
it for my kids this Festivus but
unfortunately for open AI their massive
lead in the AI space is diminishing
faster and faster open AI is currently
valued at $157 billion yet their actual
revenue is only $300 million per month
and they're currently losing billions of
dollars per year on infrastructure and
compute costs and that means they'll
need to continue seeing massive growth
in Revenue to justify this valuation but
they're also facing a bunch of other
headwinds like for one they have no moat
models like Claude and Gemini are
arguably just as good if not better in
certain situations and open models like
llama and are not far behind over the
last year Alman has been trying to use
the government to achieve regulatory
capture and crush this competition but
now it's too late and he's facing a big
Elon problem you see a few years ago
Elon Musk overpaid for a failing social
media website called Twitter is so he
could ban this college kids account who
made a python app to track the location
of his private jet everyone laughed at
him but it turns out it was in fact a 5D
chess move he parlayed his Twitter
purchase to make another crazy bet to
support Trump for president and now that
bet is paying off in a big way because
gu who just became Trump's aisar fellow
African-American and member of the
PayPal Mafia David Sachs he's been one
of elon's most loyal supporters and also
has his own AI company called glue but
the bigger conflict here is elon's
ongoing battle with open AI he was an
original co-founder who donated more
than 44 million to it as a nonprofit and
now that their plan is to transition to
for-profit he believes he's been
defrauded out of this money the current
rumor is that Sam Alman will get a 7%
stake in open AI worth about 11 billion
and that's just not fair because elon's
currently only worth 43 billion but he
really should be worth 354 billion but
Elon also has his own AI company xai
with Gro and open AI has been telling
its investors not to invest in
competitors like xai and Alman also got
busted posting misleading tweets about
grock and that prompted Elon to give him
the nickname of swindley Sam and because
of this the Doge father recently filed
an injunction to stop open AI from going
for-profit word accused it and its
Affiliates including Microsoft of
anti-competitive practices despite the
obvious threat ultman took the high road
and said quote I may turn out to be
wrong but I believe pretty strongly that
Elon will do the right thing it would be
profoundly unamerican to use political
power to hurt your competitors and
Advantage your own business only time
will tell how this all plays out but if
you really want to leverage this Tech
you need to learn it from the ground up
and you can do that today for free
thanks to this video sponsor brilliant
their platform provides interactive
Hands-On lessons that demystify the
complexity of deep learning with just a
few minutes of effort each day you can
understand the math and computer science
behind the seemingly magic technology
I'd recommend starting with python then
check out their full how large language
models work course if you really want to
look under the hood of chat gbt to try
everything brilliant has to offer for
free for 30 days by going to
brilliant.org fireship or use the QR
code on screen this has been the code
report thanks for watching and I will
see you in the next one